We're gonna use something
called a firewall.
And a firewall, this is the long
definition from Cisco, but
it essentially applies rules and says,
you're allowed, you're not allowed.
You're allowed, you're not allowed.
And we can open and
close these ports at will based on what
we need the rules we need to access them.
Fortunately for our case,
we only need a few ports open and
even better, we can use a really nice
piece of software, which is called ufw.
I made a typo there,
it is the uncomplicated firewall,
[LAUGH] not the complicated firewall.
So, we need something called ufw,
which is uncomplicated firewall.
In the old days you had to do things like
IP tables, and you had to run these really
long commands and they're very esoteric
and didn't make a lot of sense.
Ufw is a pleasure to use, it's very,
very easy to use, I would say.
It's something that historically
used to be hard and
the commands we're going to use is
ufw allow, ufw deny, ufw reject.
So, it makes it really easy
to manage your firewalls.
And if you're like me, you're saying,
what's the difference between deny and
reject?
Those seem like the same concepts.
Well, reject it'll tell you
that it's rejecting you.
So if you try to connect to my ports,
it's not open.
My firewall will say hey you're blocked,
you're not allowed to go in there.
Versus reject won't tell you anything,
it'll just be silent and
that's something you want.
We talked in a previous
section about DDOS attacks and
amplification attacks things like that,
well, it's possible that someone can
still overload your system by forcing you
to send a bunch of reject error packets.
They DDOS you hard enough cuz your
system still has to respond to that.
Versus, if we just say reject
everything else, it'll never respond.
People won't even know
your server is there.
And that's usually what
we tend to go with,
unless we're explicitly trying to
tell people that the port is denied.
So, let's go ahead and use ufw,
because we wanna close that port 3,000,
it's doesn't need to
be open on our server.
So the first thing you wanna do
is you wanna sudo ufw the status.
And it's likely if you're using
the default installation that the status
is disabled,
because we didn't turn it on yet.
And that's what we'll do in the last step.
But the first thing we wanna do is we
wanna allow ufw take over management of
our firewall, because right now
it's just done an IP config tables.
So, we're gonna say sudo a lot,
ufw allow ssh.
That's obvious,
we want sudo to allow http, also obvious.
And then we're gonna turn on the firewall,
that's it.
So go ahead and try that.
>> Why wouldn't you allow
htttps instead of http?
>> Good question, the question was, why
wouldn't we allow https instead of http?
We haven't set up https,
we will, that's the fun part.
But right now, we don't have it,
it doesn't exist.
We don't have certificates,
it's not configured in NGINX.
So, we just have a port open for no reason
at this point, we will later, though.
Alright let me go ahead and
try this out stay clear and
sudo ufw status.
Yeah, it's not running yet.
So, let's allow it to let me set
up the rules before I enable it.
Say allow ssh updated for ipv4 and ipv6.
So, I'm gonna say sudo allow,
sudo ufw allow http.
Oops, typo, all right, and
that's kinda all we need right now.
So, we'll say sudo ufw and
we're gonna enable it.
All right, and
hopefully you didn't skip that ssh step.
Otherwise, you're in
a bad time at this point.
You may have locked yourself
out of your server.
So, I probably should have
hit that a little harder.
But [LAUGH] make sure you don't close
off the one port you need to connect to.
But you're probably okay it's pretty,
ufw is a lot easier to use than
some of the other tools we used to,
and I think we can say
sudo ufw lists try that.
Enable, denable.
Wow, so I see a ufw status.
Yeah, there it's showing we have port 22.
Port 80 open for ipv four, ipv 6.
Easy, pease,
this used to be very very difficult.
I'm glossing over the benefits of
technology in modern software these days.
This used to be something
that only experts could do,
which is modify your
firewall configuration.
Ok, so our firewall setup that's great,
what else can we do?
Well, if we ever needed to
block all http connections, for
instance, when we enable https.
We probably want to disable
http in general or not,
sometimes you want it to redirect.
We can talk a bit more about
redirection in a few minutes.
But If you want it to,
you can reject all http connections.
But I'll say once I'll say it again,
do not close port 22.
You will be in a bad place if you do that.
So that's the uncomplicated firewall,
it lives up to its name
it's very uncomplicated.